0526

https://news.cgtn.com/news/2023-05-21/International-Tea-Day-Bringing-people-together-over-a-cup-of-tea-1jZ7RdFDfGw/index.html

International Tea Day falls on May 21 and this year it's coinciding with the solar term Lesser Fullness (Xiaoman) on the traditional Chinese calendar. 
The day was established by the UN General Assembly in 2019 to recognize the long history and deep cultural and economic significance of tea around the world. 

Tea is the most widely consumed drink next only to water, and drinking tea is good for health. It is now produced in more than 60 countries and regions worldwide and enjoyed by over two billion people. 
Over the past few decades, the global tea industry has developed rapidly with soaring number of consumers, as tea drinking has become trending among the young generation.


0525

https://www.cnbc.com/2023/05/17/wildfires-burn-millions-of-acres-in-canada-send-oil-prices-higher.html

Wildfires burning across western Canada have forced thousands of people to evacuate their homes and have prompted some oil and gas companies to curb production as blazes approach pipelines.

The fires have burned about 478,000 hectares, or 1,800 square miles, across Alberta, 
British Columbia and Saskatchewan as of Monday — 10 times the average area burned for this time of year, according to the NASA Earth Observatory.

The smoke also has caused poor air quality and hazy skies in parts of southern Canada, as well as in North Dakota, Minnesota and several other states. The spread of the smoke, 
which contains particles called aerosols, has prompted concerns over the impact of poor air quality on respiratory and cardiovascular health.


0524

https://www.bbc.com/news/health-65595250

The first human trial of a new type of dirty-bomb-antidote pill, designed to remove harmful radioactive contamination from the body, is starting in the US.

The drug, HOPO 14-1, is thought to work against several materials that might be used in weapons, including uranium.

If it proves safe and effective it could guard against potential harm from nuclear accidents or terrorist attacks.

About 42 volunteers will try different doses, checking for side effects.

There will be "intensive safety monitoring", with results from the phase one study expected in 2024, say the trial leaders from SRI International of Menlo Park, California,
who are receiving funding from US government agency the National Institutes of Health.



0523

https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-65616866

The creator of advanced chatbot ChatGPT has called on US lawmakers to regulate artificial intelligence (AI).

Sam Altman, the CEO of OpenAI, the company behind ChatGPT, testified before a US Senate committee on Tuesday about the possibilities - and pitfalls - of the new technology.

In a matter of months, several AI models have entered the market.

Mr Altman said a new agency should be formed to license AI companies.

ChatGPT and other similar programmes can create incredibly human-like answers to questions - but can also be wildly inaccurate.

Mr Altman, 38, has become a spokesman of sorts for the burgeoning industry. He has not shied away from addressing the ethical questions that AI raises, and has pushed for more regulation.



0522

https://news.cgtn.com/news/2023-05-19/China-Central-Asia-Summit-issues-Xi-an-declaration-1jVUWOUF5Ty/index.html

Leaders of China and Central Asian countries on Friday signed and released the Xi'an Declaration of the China-Central Asia Summit.

The two-day summit concluded on Friday in Xi'an City, northwest China's Shaanxi Province.

The Declaration hailed the cooperation between the two sides as all-round and productive, 
stressing that the six countries agreed to build a closer community with a shared future between China and Central Asian countries.  