0719
https://mob.kekenet.com/lesson/17970/649763
2021 年 06 月真题（第二套）现代就业平台
{"id":649763}

Modern Platforms of Employment

Success was once defined as being able to stay at a company for a long time and move up the corporate ladder.

as being    就是；即像
corporate ladder    企业晋升制度；公司的官阶；公司晋升制度；公司阶梯
for a long time     很长时间，很久
move up             提升，上升；向前移动
stay at             暂住在…；保留
corporate      法人的
ladder      阶梯
being       存在
company     公司

The goal was to reach the top, accumulate wealth and retire to a life of ease.

reach the top   登上顶峰
retire      退休
accumulate      积累
wealth      财富
wealthy     富有的
health      健康

My father is a successful senior executive.

senior executive    高级主管；高级执行官
executive       行政的
senior      地位较高的

In 35 years, he worked for only three companies.

When I started my career, things were already different.

career  生涯
different   不同的

If you weren't changing companies every three or four years, you simply weren't getting ahead in your career.

getting ahead in your career   在职业生涯中前进
ahead   领先
simply  简单地

But back then, if you were a consultant or freelancer, people would wonder what was wrong with you.

wrong with  有毛病；出故障；不正常
consultant      顾问
wonder      惊奇

They would assume you had problems getting a job.

assume      假定

Today, consulting or freelancing for five businesses at the same time is a badge of honor.

at the same time    同时；然而
badge       象征

It shows how valuable an individual is.
这能说明一个人的价值所在。

individual  单独的
valuable    贵重的

Many companies now look to these "ultimate professionals" to solve problems their full-time teams can't.

ultimate    根本的

Or they save money by hiring "top-tier experts" only for particular projects.

hiring      雇佣
only for    要是没有
particular  特别的
expert      专家
export      出口
tier        层;级;等级;阶层;阶

Working at home or in cafes, starting businesses of their own, and even launching business ventures that eventually may fail, 
all indicate "initiative", "creativity" and "adaptability", which are desirable qualities in today's workplace.

indicate    指示
initiative  自发的
desirable   令人向往的
creativity  创造力
workplace   工作场所
adaptability    适应性
eventually      adv. 最后；终于

Most important, there is a growing recognition that people who balance work and play, and who work at what they are passionate about, are more focused and productive, delivering greater value to their clients.

productive      生产的;导致;引起; 富有成效的
recognition     识别;承认;认识;
passionate      热情的
client          客户;(连接在服务器上的)客户机;委托人;当事人

Who are these people?

They are artists, writers, programmers, providers of office services and career advice.

What's needed now is a marketplace platform specifically designed to bring freelancers and clients together.

marketplace     市场;集市;市场竞争
specifically    特别地
freelancer      自由职业者;特约人员

Such platforms then become a place to feature the most experienced, professional, and creative talent.

feature     特征
professional    职业的
talent      天赋
creative      有创造力的


This is where they conduct business, where a sense of community reinforces the culture and values of the gig economy, and where success is rewarded with good reviews that encourage more business.

sense of    …的感觉
conduct     行为
community   社区
culture     栽培
gig economy     零工经济
gig     (尤指临时的)工作;(流行音乐或爵士乐)现场演奏会，现场演唱会;

Slowly but surely, these platforms create a bridge between traditional enterprises and this emerging economy.

slowly but surely   稳扎稳打，踏实的
traditional     传统的

Perhaps more important, as the global economy continues to be disrupted by technology and other massive change, the gig economy will itself become an engine of economic and social transformation.

global economy   全球经济
more important      更加重要
social transformation       社会转型；社会转变
massive     巨大的
engine      发动机


0720
https://mob.kekenet.com/keke/mobile/index.php
{"Method":"v9_news_getcontent","Params":{"id":649761},"Token":"","Terminal":"11","Version":"4.0","UID":0,"AppFlag":"0","Sign":"","ApVersionCode":1}

2021 年 06 月真题（第一套）听说玩耍能够增强咱们的硬实力！Play May Help Students' Stem Skills

Educators and business leaders have more in common than it may seem.

Teachers want to prepare students for a successful future.

prepare 把…准备好

Technology companies have an interest in developing a workforce with the STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) skills needed to grow the company and advance the industry.

have an interest in     对...有兴趣
workforce       劳动力
engineering     工程
industry        工业

How can they work together to achieve these goals?

Play may be the answer.

Focusing on STEM skills is important, but the reality is that STEM skills are enhanced and more relevant when combined with traditional, hands-on creative activities.

combined with       化合，联合；连同
relevant        相关的
traditional     传统的

This combination is proving to be the best way to prepare today's children to be the makers and builders of tomorrow.

best way    最佳方法

That is why technology companies are partnering with educators to bring back good, old-fashioned play.

bring back      拿回来；使…恢复；使…回忆起来
old-fashioned   老式的

In fact, many experts argue that the most important 21st-century skills aren't related to specific technologies or subject matter, but to creativity;
skills like imagination, problem-finding and problem-solving, teamwork, optimism, patience and the ability to experiment and take risks.

in fact     事实上，实际上
subject matter      主题；主旨
be related to       与...有关的；与...相关的
teamwork            合作
specific            明确的
optimism            乐观
imagination         想象
creativity          创造力
century             百年，世纪
experiment          试验
argue               争论
patience            耐心

These are skills acquired when kids tinker.

acquire     获得;得到;购得
tinker      小炉匠，补锅匠，白铁匠;修补工

High-tech industries such as NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory have found that their best overall problem-solvers were master tinkerers in their youth.

jet propulsion  喷射推进
overall     全部的
found       建立
tech        技术学校

There are cognitive benefits of doing things the way we did as children - building something, tearing it down, then building it up again.

cognitive   认识的
tear        撕裂;撕开； n. 眼泪;泪水;

Research shows that given 15 minutes of free play, four- and five-year-olds will spend a third of this time engaged in spatial, mathematical, and architectural activities.

a third of  三分之一的
engaged in  从事于；忙于
spatial     空间的
architectural   建筑的
mathematical    数学的

This type of play - especially with building blocks - helps children discover and develop key principles in math and geometry.

geometry    几何
especially  特别

If play and building are critical to 21st-century skill development, that's really good news for two reasons: Children are born builders, makers, and creators, 
so fostering 21st-century skills may be as simple as giving kids room to play, tinker and try things out, even as they grow older.

skill development   技能发展
critical            批评的

Secondly, it doesn't take 21st-century technology to foster 21st-century skills.

foster      领养
forest      森林

This is especially important for under-resourced schools and communities.

Taking whatever materials are handy and tinkering with them is a simple way to engage those important "maker" skills.

handy   方便的
engage  答应
maker   制造者
whatever    无论什么

And anyone, anywhere, can do it.