0519
[原文链接]https://newseu.cgtn.com/news/2023-05-13/Portugal-to-ban-smoking-near-schools-and-hospitals-1jJgPkqTP1e/index.html

Portugal is planning measures to ban smoking near schools and hospitals as well as in covered outdoor seating areas, the country's health minister has announced.

The law, which will be discussed in Parliament at an unspecified date, would also forbid the practice in all indoor spaces such as smoking areas inside cafes.

Additionally, it would prohibit installing new such areas and stop the sale of tobacco products in locations where smoking is banned, from 2025.

Smoking was first banned in public indoor spaces in Portugal more than a decade ago.

"With this law, we hope that young people can live in an environment without tobacco, reduce the incentive to smoke and allow smokers to overcome their addiction," 
Minister of Health Manuel Pizarro said after a cabinet meeting.

"Our objective is to have a generation living without tobacco by 2040... this law is in line with the EU's anti-tobacco stance, but we wish to go further," he added.

The government also wants health warnings introduced on packaging of tobacco products like e-cigarettes, as is the case with traditional smoking items.


0518

https://www.bbc.com/news/business-65574826

Elon Musk has named a new chief executive of Twitter, just over six months after his controversial takeover of the social media company.

The billionaire said Linda Yaccarino, the former head of advertising at NBCUniversal, would oversee business operations at the site, which has been struggling to make money.

He said she would start in six weeks.

Mr Musk will remain involved as executive chairman and chief technology officer.

1. chief executive  首席执行官
2. controversial takeover of the social media company  对这家社交媒体公司充满争议的收购
3. oversee business operations  负责商业运营

Mr Musk - who bought the social media platform last year for $44bn - had been under pressure to find someone else to lead the company and refocus his attention on his other businesses, 
which include electric carmaker Tesla and rocket firm SpaceX.

With fewer than 10% of Fortune 500 tech companies headed by women, 
Ms Yaccarino will become that rare example of a woman at the top of a major tech firm, after rising steadily through the ranks of some of America's biggest media companies.

4. buy the social media platform  收购这家社交媒体平台
5. refocus on other businesses   重新关注其他业务


0517

https://www.bbc.com/news/science-environment-65557469

Wind turbines have generated more electricity than gas for the first time in the UK.

In the first three months of this year a third of the country's electricity came from wind farms, research from Imperial College London has shown.

National Grid has also confirmed that April saw a record period of solar energy generation.

By 2035 the UK aims for all of its electricity to have net zero emissions.


0516

https://edition.cnn.com/2023/05/12/middleeast/massive-us-embassy-middle-east-mime-intl/index.html


A massive new US embassy complex in Lebanon is causing controversy for its sheer size and opulence in a country where nearly 80% of the population is under the poverty line.

Located some 13 kilometers (about 8 miles) from the center of Beirut and built on the site of the current embassy, the US’ new compound in Lebanon looks like a city of its own.

Sprawling over a 43-acre site, the complex in the Beirut suburb of Awkar is almost two-and-a-half times the size of the land the White House sits on and more than 21 soccer fields.

Many Lebanese on Twitter questioned why the US needs such a large embassy in their capital. Lebanon is smaller than Connecticut and has a population of just six million. 
Few American tourists go to the country as the State Department has placed it on the third highest travel advisory level, but it does have a sizeable population of Lebanese American residents.


0515

https://news.cgtn.com/news/2023-05-14/China-Australia-will-restart-economic-trade-dialogue-mechanisms-1jN1FQChtqE/index.html

China and Australia have agreed to resume high-level economic and trade dialogue mechanisms, including a free trade agreement joint committee.

According to a press statement by the Chinese Ministry of Commerce on Saturday, the resumption was agreed during the 16th China-Australia Joint Ministerial Economic Commission co-chaired 
by Chinese Commerce Minister Wang Wentao and visiting Australian Trade Minister Don Farrell in Beijing on Friday.

Wang called on Australia to make joint efforts to expand common interests, and urged the two countries to address each other's concerns on the basis of equality and mutual benefit.

The two economies are highly complementary and have fruitful economic and trade cooperation, he said, calling for the important consensus reached by the two heads of state in Bali to be implemented, 
for common ground to be sought while reserving differences, and for practical cooperation to be advanced.

