可可英语-每日新闻摘录

04-28
Twenty young female scientists and five scientific teams researching various fields were awarded for major breakthroughs on Saturday by 
the All-China Women's Federation (ACWF) and the China Association for Science and Technology (CAST).

At a ceremony hosted by the ACWF and CAST, Shen Yueyue, vice chairperson of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference and president of the ACWF, 
encouraged female scientists to bear in mind fundamental national interests and people's concern.

Shen called on them to achieve breakthroughs in original and pioneering scientific and technological research 
and brave and tackle bottleneck problems in key and core technologies to enhance the country's self-reliance and strength in science and technology.

星期六，中华全国妇女联合会（ACWF）和中国科学技术协会（CAST）为20名年轻女科学家和5个研究各个领域的科学团队颁发了重大突破奖。

在全国妇联和中国科协联合举办的仪式上，全国政协副主席、全国妇联会长沉月月勉励女科学家要以国家根本利益和人民利益为重。

沉要求，要在原创性、开创性科技研究上取得突破，勇于攻克关键核心技术瓶颈，增强国家科技自立和科技实力。

female  n. 妇女
scientists  n. 科学家（scientist 的复数）
scientific  adj. 科学的，与科学有关的；细致严谨的，使用科学方法的
researching     n. 研究, 研究员
research        n. （尤指大学或科研机构进行的）研究，探讨；研究工作，调查工作; v. 研究，探索；为……收集资料，调查
breakthrough    n. 突破，重大进展
major           adj. 重大的，主要的
ceremony        n. 仪式，典礼；礼节，礼仪，客套
vice            adj. 副的；代替的，代理的
committee       n. 委员会；<英>受托人，监护人；<美>精神病者监护人
political       adj. 政治（上）的，政府的；政党的，党派的；对政治感兴趣的，参与政治的；反政府的；（组织内部人际间）牵涉权力关系的，争权夺利的
consultative    adj. 咨询的，顾问的
conference      n. （大型、正式的）会议，研讨会；（小型正式的）商讨，讨论；体育协会（或联合会）
president       会长
chairperson     主席
achieve         v. （经努力）达到，取得，实现；获得成功
pioneering      adj. 首创的，先驱的；有开创者特点的
technological   adj. 技术的，科技的，工艺的
technologies    n. 技术；科技（technology 的复数）
brave           adj. 勇敢的，无畏的；非常好的；华丽的，盛装的
tackle          v. 应付，解决（难题或局面）；
bottleneck      n. 瓶颈；障碍物
enhance         v. 增强，提高，改善
reliance        n. 依靠，信任；<古>被依赖的人（或物）
strength        n. 体力，力量；实力，影响力；
science         n. 科学，科学知识；专门科学；（大学学习的）学科；理科；技术，技巧

04-27
The 13th Beijing International Film Festival (BJIFF) lifted its curtain in Beijing on Saturday.

This year, the number of films that registered for the Tiantan Award worldwide reached a record high of 1,488 entries from 93 countries and regions.
Among them, foreign films accounted for more than 80 percent of the entries.

The 13th Beijing International Film Festival is offering a diverse range of activities, including offline events such as the "Tiantan Award" ceremony, screenings, forums, 
a film carnival, a college student film festival, and the closing and award ceremonies, as well as other related events.

This year, 15 films are competing for the Tiantan Award, and winners will be announced at the closing ceremony on April 29.

第十三届北京国际电影节周六在北京拉开帷幕。

今年，天坛奖全球报名影片数量创历史新高，来自93个国家和地区的1488部作品。 其中，外国影片占参赛作品的80%以上。

第十三届北京国际电影节活动丰富多彩，包括“天坛奖”颁奖典礼、展映、论坛、电影嘉年华、大学生电影节、闭幕颁奖等线下活动，以及 其他相关事件。

今年天坛奖共有15部影片角逐，获奖名单将于4月29日闭幕式上揭晓。

lift        v. 提起，举起；抬起（身体某一部位）；空运；解除，撤销；高兴起来，使更愉快；消散，消失；n. 电梯，升降机；免费搭车，搭便车； 过去分词lifted
curtain     n. 窗帘，门帘；帘状物，幕状物（如浓烟或大雨等）；纱幔，帷幔；（舞台上的）幕，幕布；开幕，落幕；灾难性结局
registered      adj. 已登记的，已注册的；
worldwide       adj. 世界范围的，全世界的
reach           v. 到达，抵达；过去式reached
record          n. 记录，记载；
entry           n. 进入，加入；出场，莅临；门，入口；进入权，进入许可；参赛；参赛作品，竞赛答题；复数entries
offer           v. 提供，给予; 现在分词offering
diverse         adj. 不同的，各式各样的
compete         v. 竞争，对抗；争夺；参加比赛; 现在分词competing
announced       v. 宣布，宣告；通知；声称，宣称；宣布（某人）到达；（在广播或电视中）播音，广播（announce 的过去式和过去分词）

04-26
Clashes erupted north of Sudan’s capital Khartoum on Wednesday night, upending a temporary ceasefire between the Sudanese Army and its rival, the Rapid Support Force, just hours after it was struck.

The two factions have been battling for days, and Wednesday saw fierce fighting in central Khartoum as well as serious clashes at the capital’s main airport.

周三晚上，苏丹首都喀土穆北部爆发冲突，苏丹军队与其对手快速支援部队(Rapid Support Force)之间的临时停火协议在遭到袭击几小时后被打破。

两派已经激战数日，周三在喀土穆市中心发生激烈战斗，首都主要机场也发生严重冲突。

capital     n. 首都
north       adj. 北
erupted     v. 爆发；长出（erupt 的过去分词）
clash       n. 冲突，交战；争论，争执；交锋，比赛；复数clashes
temporary   n. 临时雇员，临时工
ceasefire   n. 停火（停战）协议；停火命令，停火信号
upending    v. 翻倒;倒放;使颠倒
rival       n. 竞争对手，敌手；可与之匹敌者，可与之相比的人（或物）
struck      v. 打，撞；（用手或武器等）打；（使）碰撞（strike 的过去式和过去分词）
faction     n. 派系，宗派；派系之争，内讧；纪实与虚构相结合的电影（或书等）
fierce      adj. 动作或情感）强烈的，激烈的；（人或动物）凶猛的，狂怒的；（天气等）狂暴的，恶劣的
as well as   也；和……一样；不但……而且
serious     adj. 严重的


04-25
Elon Musk's SpaceX company's mammoth new rocket, Starship, has exploded on its maiden flight.

No-one was hurt in the uncrewed test that lifted off from Texas' coast on Thursday morning local time.

After two to three minutes into the flight, the rocket - the biggest ever developed - started to tumble out of control and was soon destroyed by onboard charges.

Mr Musk has said his company will try again in a couple of months.

SpaceX engineers still class Thursday's mission as a success. They like to "test early and often" and are not afraid to break things. 
They will have gathered a mass of data to work towards the next flight. A second Starship is almost ready to take flight.

"Congrats @SpaceX team on an exciting test launch of Starship! Learned a lot for next test launch in a few months," Mr Musk tweeted.

埃隆·马斯克 (Elon Musk) 的 SpaceX 公司的巨型新型火箭星际飞船 (Starship) 在其首飞中爆炸。

当地时间周四上午，无人驾驶测试从德克萨斯州海岸起飞，无人受伤。

飞行两到三分钟后，有史以来最大的火箭开始失控坠落，很快就被机载炸药摧毁。

马斯克先生表示，他的公司将在几个月后再次尝试。

SpaceX 工程师仍然认为周四的任务是成功的。 他们喜欢“尽早且经常测试”并且不怕破坏东西。 他们将收集大量数据来为下一次飞行工作。 第二艘星际飞船即将起飞。

“祝贺@SpaceX 团队进行了激动人心的星际飞船试射！为几个月后的下一次试射学到了很多东西，”马斯克先生在推特上写道。

mammoth     adj. 巨大的，庞大的; n. 猛犸，毛象；庞然大物
exploded    v. 爆炸（explode 的过去分词）
maiden      adj. 首次的，初次的；（女子）未婚的；（赛马）从未跑赢过的；（树木或其他果实植物）生长期第一年内的
flight      n. 航班，班机；飞行；逃走，逃避；（两个楼层间的）一段楼梯；（一起飞行的）鸟群，机群；v. （足球、板球等）将（球）准确吊传；给（箭，镖）装羽毛（或箭翎）；射击（飞行中的野禽）
fly         v. 飞，飞翔；（飞机、航天器等）飞行，航行；乘飞机；
uncrewed    adj. 无人驾驶的；无船员的
lift off    （火箭等）发射；（直升飞机）起飞
tumble      v. 翻滚，滚落；摔倒，跌倒；倒塌，坍塌；
charge      v. 充电；使……承担责任，赋予……责任；n. 电量，电荷；炸药量；掌管，照管；费用，价钱；
a couple of     三两个……；一对……
couple      n. 两个，几个；一对夫妇，一对情侣; v. 加上，结合；（把设备等）连接；形成一双，配成一对；
class       n. 班级；（一节）课，上课时间；v. 把……归类，把……看作；把……编入某一班级；属于……类（或等级），被列为某类（或某级）
mission     n. 使命，重要任务；

04-24
India is set to surpass China as the world’s most populous nation, with almost 3 million more people by the middle of this year, data released by the United Nations on Wednesday showed.

Based on the projections, India’s population by mid-year will reach 1.4286 billion, compared to China’s 1.4257 billion – 2.9 million fewer – according to the United Nations Population Fund’s (UNFPA) “State of World Population Report” for 2023.

UN officials have said it is not possible to determine the exact date for the shift, due to “uncertainty” about the data coming from China and India. India’s last census was in 2011 and most recent, scheduled in 2021, was delayed during the Covid-19 pandemic.

The United States is a very distant third, with an estimated population of 340 million, the data, which reflects information available as of February, showed.

By 2050, eight countries will account for half the projected growth in global population: The Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), Egypt, Ethiopia, India, Nigeria, Pakistan, the Philippines and Tanzania, according to the UNFPA report.

Beijing’s leaders have sought to downplay the significance of being overtaken by India.

“A country’s demographic dividend depends not only on the total number, but also on the quality; not only on the population, but also on the talent,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin told reporters Wednesday when asked about the latest UN projection.

联合国周三公布的数据显示，到今年年中，印度将超过中国成为世界上人口最多的国家，人口将增加近 300 万。

根据联合国人口基金 (UNFPA) 的 2023 年“世界人口状况报告”，根据预测，到年中印度的人口将达到 14.286 亿，而中国的人口为 14.257 亿，减少了 290 万。

联合国官员表示，由于来自中国和印度的数据存在“不确定性”，因此无法确定转变的确切日期。 印度上一次人口普查是在 2011 年，而最近一次原定于 2021 年进行的人口普查在 Covid-19 大流行期间被推迟。

数据显示，美国排在第三位，估计人口为 3.4 亿，该数据反映了截至 2 月份的可用信息。

根据人口基金的报告，到 2050 年，八个国家将占全球人口预计增长的一半：刚果民主共和国 (DRC)、埃及、埃塞俄比亚、印度、尼日利亚、巴基斯坦、菲律宾和坦桑尼亚。

北京领导人试图淡化被印度超越的重要性。

“一个国家的人口红利不仅取决于总量，更取决于质量； 不仅是人口，还有人才，”外交部发言人王文斌周三在被问及联合国最新预测时告诉记者。

04-23
Kenya on Saturday marked a new milestone in space exploration by launching the first satellite dubbed "Taifa 1" into space after three botched attempts linked to bad weather.

Developed by nine Kenya engineers, the observation satellite blasted off aboard SpaceX's Falcon-9 full-thrust rocket from Space Launch Complex 4E(SLC-4E), at Vandenberg Space Force Base in the United States of America.

The launch of Taifa 1 was described by the Kenya Space Agency as a historic milestone, amid efforts to harness space science to tackle present-day ecological challengens like the climate crisis.

Taifa is a Swahili word meaning "nation" in English.

The satellite will also collect agricultural data, monitor wildfires and aid local efforts to combat food insecurity while strengthening disaster management, noted Kenya Space Agency.

Its launch after three failed attempts last week linked to unfavorable upper-level wind conditions according to Kenya Space Agency is expected to revitalize the push for space exploration in Africa.

肯尼亚周六标志着太空探索的一个新里程碑，在与恶劣天气有关的三次失败尝试后，将第一颗名为“Taifa 1”的卫星发射到太空。

这颗观测卫星由 9 名肯尼亚工程师开发，由 SpaceX 的 Falcon-9 全推力火箭从美利坚合众国范登堡太空部队基地的 4E 航天发射场 (SLC-4E) 发射升空。

Taifa 1 号的发射被肯尼亚航天局描述为一个历史性的里程碑，它正在努力利用空间科学来应对当今的生态挑战，如气候危机。

Taifa 是一个斯瓦希里语单词，在英语中意为“民族”。

肯尼亚航天局指出，该卫星还将收集农业数据、监测野火并帮助当地努力应对粮食不安全，同时加强灾害管理。

根据肯尼亚航天局的说法，在上周三次尝试失败后，它的发射与不利的上层风力条件有关，预计将重振非洲太空探索的推动力。