05-12
https://www.cnbc.com/2023/05/02/samsung-bans-use-of-ai-like-chatgpt-for-staff-after-misuse-of-chatbot.html

Samsung is restricting the use of so-called generative artificial intelligence tools such as ChatGPT for employees after the company discovered such services were being misused.

The South Korean technology giant confirmed to CNBC Tuesday that it is temporarily restricting the use of generative AI through the company’s personal computers.

Employees of one of Samsung’s biggest divisions were informed of the move in a memo at the end of April after there had been cases of misuse of the technology.


05-11
https://edition.cnn.com/2023/05/02/australia/australia-vaping-ban-intl-hnk/index.html

The Australian government will ban e-cigarettes through a heavy set of controls on imports and packaging to discourage vaping, especially among teens, under its biggest smoking reforms in more than a decade.

Australian Health Minister Mark Butler on Tuesday said vaping has become a top behavioral issue in high schools and a growing problem in elementary schools but recognized the products have a therapeutic use 
under the right circumstances.

Vaping involves heating a liquid that contains nicotine in an e-cigarette which is vaporized and inhaled by the user. It is widely seen as an alternative to smoking cigarettes and a product to help smokers quit tobacco, 
but instead, teens and even young children are taking up vaping as an addictive habit globally.


05-10
https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-65468404

A teenager who killed eight fellow students and a security guard in a school in Serbia planned the attack for weeks and had a "kill list", according to police.

The 13-year-old was arrested following Wednesday's attack at the Vladislav Ribnikar primary school in Belgrade.

The boy's father and mother have also been arrested.

Of those killed, seven of the victims were girls at the school, but the motive for the attack is still unclear.


05-09
President Joe Biden's administration will temporarily send 1500 additional troops to help secure the U.S.-Mexico border, the Pentagon said on Tuseday,
in preparation for a possible rise in illegal immigration when COVID-19 border restrictions lift later this month.

The 90-day deployment of active-duty troops will supplement the work of the U.S. Border Patrol but not carry out law enforcement duties, 
Pentagon spokesperson Brigadier General Pat Ryder said in a statement.

1. the U.S.-Mexico border 美墨边境
2. the Pentagon 五角大楼（美国国防部）
3. illegal immigration 非法移民

The so-called Title 42 restrictions, set to end on May 11， allow U.S. authorities to rapidly expel non-Mexican migrants to Mexico without the chance to seek asylum.
Biden, a Democrat running for reelection in 2024, has grappled with record numbers of migrants caught illegally crossing the U.S-Mexico border since he took office in 2021.

1. Title 42 restrictions 第42条限制法案
2. expel migrants 驱逐移民
3. seek asylum 寻求庇护
4. illegally cross the U.S-Mexico border 非法越过美墨边境


05-08
The global economy is expected to get a boost from a surge of Chinese tourists travelling abroad as the Labor Day break, 
one of the country's longest holidays, is unleashing the vast potential of their consuming power following three years of COVID when outbound travel was mostly restricted.
随着劳动节假期的到来，出国旅游的中国游客激增，预计全球经济将得到提振，作为该国最长的假期之一，在经历了三年的新冠疫情后，出境旅行大多受到限制，这释放了他们巨大的消费潜力。

The reopening of the world's second largest economy at the beginning of this year injected much confidence into a severely battered global economy, 
with the international tourism market being notably expected to see a major recovery. 
今年年初，世界第二大经济体的重新开放为遭受重创的全球经济注入了很大的信心，国际旅游市场预计将出现重大复苏。


1. The global economy 全球经济
2. get a boost from 因...大幅增长
3. a surge of Chinese tourists travelling abroad    出国旅行的中国游客的激增
4. Labor Day 劳动节
6. consuming power 消费能力
7. outbound travel 出境游;   overseas trips 出国游；oubound group tours 跟团出国旅游
8. inject confidence into a severely battered global economy  为遭受严重打击的全球经济注入信心

