https://radio.cgtn.com/news/recommend/Iran-says-reopening-of-diplomatic-missions-in-Saudi-Arabia-in-final-stage/2112

Iran says reopening of diplomatic missions in Saudi Arabia in final stage
伊朗表示，重新开放驻沙特阿拉伯外交使团已进入最后阶段


Iran's foreign ministry spokesman Nasser Kanaani says the reopening process of its diplomatic missions in Saudi Arabia is in its final stage.
伊朗外交部发言人纳赛尔·卡纳尼表示，伊朗驻沙特阿拉伯外交使团的重新开放进程已进入最后阶段。


Under China's mediation efforts, Saudi Arabia and Iran reached a deal in March to resume diplomatic relations.

Riyadh and Tehran are expecting more frequent exchanges after they re-establish embassies in each other's capitals.

A few weeks after the signing of the agreement between Iran and Saudi Arabia for the complete resumption of the relation under a China-brokered agreement, 
Iran's foreign ministry announced that Iran has invited Saudi King Salman for an official visit.
在中国的斡旋下，沙特阿拉伯和伊朗于3月达成恢复外交关系的协议。

This invitation was extended by President Ibrahim Raisi in response to King Salman's previous invitation for an official visit to Riyadh, which was accepted by Raisi.

Carpet seller Qadir Khademi in Tehran shared his opinion on this.

"After facing isolation in its relations with Europe and the United States, Iran may now prioritize strengthening relations with its neighbors and regional countries with the support of China for more benefits. 
The invitations exchanged between the leaders of Iran and Saudi Arabia indicates a mutual desire for a swift resumption of relations."
“在与欧洲和美国的关系面临孤立之后，伊朗现在可能会在中国的支持下优先加强与邻国和地区国家的关系，以获得更多利益。伊朗和沙特阿拉伯领导人之间的邀请表明，双方都希望迅速恢复关系。”

During the presidency of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, there were two visits to Saudi Arabia where he met with Saudi King Malek Abdullah. Similarly, 
King Abdullah visited Iran during the presidency of Mohammad Khatami to attend the summit of Islamic countries.
在马哈茂德·艾哈迈迪内贾德担任总统期间，他曾两次访问沙特阿拉伯，会见了沙特国王马雷克·阿卜杜拉。同样，阿卜杜拉国王在穆罕默德·哈塔米担任总统期间访问了伊朗，出席了伊斯兰国家峰会。

Apart from trade and commerce, Iran is also aiming to enhance cooperation with Saudi Arabia in areas such as investment, joint industrial production, and implementation of technical and engineering services projects in the industrial sector, including re-exports.

Political science professor Ebrahim Motaghi at University of Tehran says it marks a good start to the resumption of bilateral relations.

"It can be anticipated that there will be reciprocal visits between the officials of both countries at the level of foreign ministers. As the two comprehensive agreements between the two countries are implemented, we may witness exchange of delegations at various levels."

Previously, both Iran and Saudi Arabia have expressed their determination to use all efforts to strengthen regional and international peace and security through the implementation of a general agreement covering economic, commercial, investment, technical, and scientific cooperation.

Iran's Civil Aviation Organization has received an official request from Saudi Arabia's civil aviation to establish three flights per week. This is seen as a quick result of the agreement between Iran and Saudi Arabia in Beijing.

Mansour Rezaei, a member of the Strategic Studies Center in Tehran, stated that it shows Iran's willingness at closer communication with its neighbors.
德黑兰战略研究中心成员Mansour Rezaei表示，这表明伊朗愿意与邻国进行更密切的沟通。

"The Iranian government is interested in establishing constructive relations based on mutual respect with all Arab, Islamic, and regional countries. In this direction, any positive step taken by a country is welcomed, and Iran reciprocates with goodwill."
“伊朗政府有兴趣在相互尊重的基础上与所有阿拉伯、伊斯兰和地区国家建立建设性关系。在这个方向上，欢迎一个国家采取任何积极措施，伊朗也以善意回报。”

Both Iran and Saudi Arabia have jointly announced that they will reopen their embassies and respect each other's sovereignty, refraining from interfering in each other's internal affairs.
伊朗和沙特阿拉伯联合宣布，他们将重新开放大使馆，尊重彼此主权，避免干涉对方内政。



利雅得和德黑兰在各自首都重新建立大使馆后，预计会有更频繁的交流。
在伊朗和沙特阿拉伯签署根据中国斡旋的协议完全恢复两国关系的协议几周后，伊朗外交部宣布，伊朗已邀请沙特国王萨勒曼进行正式访问。
易卜拉欣·莱西总统发出了这一邀请，以回应萨勒曼国王此前对利雅得进行正式访问的邀请，莱西接受了邀请。
德黑兰的地毯销售商卡迪尔·卡德米对此发表了自己的看法。


除贸易和商业外，伊朗还致力于加强与沙特阿拉伯在投资、联合工业生产以及实施工业部门的技术和工程服务项目（包括再出口）等领域的合作。
德黑兰大学政治学教授易卜拉欣·莫塔吉表示，这标志着双边关系恢复的良好开端。
“可以预见，两国外交部长级官员将进行互访。随着两国之间的两项全面协议的实施，我们可能会看到各级代表团的交流。”
此前，伊朗和沙特阿拉伯都表示决心通过执行一项涵盖经济、商业、投资、技术和科学合作的总协议，尽一切努力加强地区和国际和平与安全。
伊朗民航组织收到沙特阿拉伯民航局的正式请求，要求其每周设立三个航班。这被视为伊朗和沙特阿拉伯在北京达成协议的迅速结果。


