https://radio.cgtn.com/news/recommend/Through-the-eyes-of-an-American-uncovering-the-richness-of-a-Chinese-village/2098

Through the eyes of an American: uncovering the richness of a Chinese village
通过一个美国人的眼睛：揭示中国村庄的丰富多彩

Rural China is as appealing to foreigners as it is to Chinese people.
中国农村对外国人的吸引力和对中国人的吸引力一样大。

The serene countryside can fulfill many pastoral goals of the urban middle-class, 
such as a harmonious work-life balance and a healthier living environment.
宁静的乡村可以实现城市中产阶级的许多田园目标，如和谐的工作与生活平衡和更健康的生活环境。

Liu Jiaheng spoke to an American hotelier who has made Xizhou in Yunnan Province his home.
刘家恒采访了一位美国酒店经营者，他把云南省的溪州作为自己的家。

"My name is Brian Linden, and I'm from Chicago, and I first came to China in 1984…"
“我叫布莱恩·林登，来自芝加哥，1984年第一次来到中国……”

Widely known as the owner of a popular hotel in Xizhou, American Brian Linden has been living his China life for about 20 years.
美国人布莱恩·林登（Brian Linden）是溪州一家著名酒店的老板，他在中国生活了大约20年。

His hotel, The Linden Centre, or Xi Lin Yuan, is a nationally-protected heritage site, serving as a cultural bridge between 
visitors and the local community.
他的酒店，林登中心，或称Xi林苑，是一个国家保护的遗址，是游客和当地社区之间的文化桥梁。

"We looked all over China for two years, and we felt that probably there were three points that were the most important points. 
我们在中国各地考察了两年，我们觉得可能有三点是最重要的。

One was the local people. The local people here in Dali and in Yunnan, in general, are quite inclusive. 
一点是当地人。大理和云南的当地人总体上都很包容。

Second thing was really the government.The government seemed to be really focused on just the local things more. 
第二点是政府。政府似乎更关注当地的事情。

And then the third thing is the building itself. 
第三点是建筑本身。"

In his new book, "One Village at a Time," Linden advocates for China to maintain its reverence for the land.
在他的新书《一个村庄一次》中，林登主张中国保持对这片土地的敬畏。

He argues that China's sense of identity is rooted in its rural areas, and its "soft power" derives from its rich history and culture.
他认为，中国的认同感植根于农村地区，其“软实力”来源于其丰富的历史和文化。

"I think that for me, the importance of China's villages is that it's really this connection with a unique, 
in a way it's a burden for you as Chinese people, but it's a burden that the whole world can benefit from. 
There's 5,000 years of traditions and accumulated wisdom and knowledge that has been really adapted to the environment:
how we work with the environment, how we work with nature, how we work with agriculture. "
“我认为，对我来说，中国村庄的重要性在于，它与一种独特的联系，在某种程度上，这对你们中国人来说是一种负担，
但这是全世界都可以从中受益的负担。有5000年的传统和积累的智慧和知识已经真正适应了环境：我们如何与环境合作，我们如何与自然合作我们从事农业工作。"

From the perspective of a foreigner, Linden describes the changes in China's rural areas as "miraculous".
站在外国人的角度，林登用“奇迹”形容中国农村的变化。

"I mean you don't understand how really poor it was in China before. And now to see this wealth, 
I think the most important thing is, among the rural people, my friends here in the villages and everything. There's a sense of hope."
“我的意思是你不明白中国以前有多穷。现在看到这种财富，我认为最重要的是在农村人、我在农村的朋友和一切。有一种感觉 希望。”

Linden says what's commendable to China's rural revitalization is that the people have been walking down the path together with the government.
林登说，中国乡村振兴难能可贵的是人民一直在和政府一起走下去

"…The idea that when the local people see the government investing in infrastructure, and improving their roads, 
improving the trains, improving the hospitals, improving the schools. This is so important to people."
“…当当地人看到政府投资于基础设施，改善道路，改善火车，改善医院，改善学校时，这种想法对人们来说非常重要。”

As a member of the Dali community, Linden views the city as a symbol of China's role in the global community, 
one of the greatest examples of inclusivity.
作为大理社区的一员，林登将这座城市视为中国在国际社会中角色的象征，是包容性的最大例子之一。

He strives to add a voice and tell a fresh, different story to the world about Dali, and China.
他努力为世界讲述一个关于大理和中国的新鲜、不同的故事。

"So what I hope is that in the outside world will show some perspective kind of and also they'll look at China not solely for through 
the eyes of what exists currently in the outside world, but from what China has accomplished in the direction it is going."
“因此，我希望外界能展现出某种视角，他们不仅会从目前外部世界的角度来看待中国，还会从中国在前进方向上取得的成就来看待中国。”

Linden welcomes every guest with the most sincere heart.
林登以最真诚的心欢迎每一位客人。

As a social enterprise, he is committed to ensuring that his business is not only successful, 
but also serves as an inspiration to other entrepreneurs.
作为一家社会企业，他致力于确保自己的企业不仅成功，同时也激励了其他企业家。

Through his innovative business model, Linden has been able to create jobs with a remarkable 3:1 staff-to-room ratio.
通过创新的商业模式，林登能够以3:1的员工比例创造就业机会。

He also encourages local residents to voice their hopes and concerns about the future of their rural communities.
他还鼓励当地居民表达他们对农村社区未来的希望和担忧。

"The Chinese people are incredibly intelligent. And I feel that what we need to do is offer a wider platform, 
offer more opportunities and choices for them, not just financial choices."
“中国人非常聪明。我觉得我们需要做的是提供一个更广泛的平台，为他们提供更多的机会和选择，而不仅仅是财务选择。"

Linden finds it gratifying to see that many people are now returning to their villages, and he's calling for more people to settle 
in Xizhou for the long-term, rather than just trying it out for a couple of years.
林登很高兴看到许多人现在回到了他们的村庄，他呼吁更多的人定居在溪州长期进行，而不是仅仅尝试几年。

"If you were to come back here to Xizhou, and you've really invested in the community, you may find your life is so exciting, so interesting…"
“如果你回到溪州，并且你真的对社区进行了投资，你可能会发现你的生活是如此激动人心，如此有趣……”