0710
https://edition.cnn.com/2023/07/04/europe/france-fundraiser-nahel-protests-intl/index.html

France has been rocked by a wave of protests after a 17-year-old youth was shot by police near Paris on Tuesday, sparking a ban on demonstrations in some cities,
周二，一名 17 岁青年在巴黎附近被警察枪杀，引发法国一些城市禁止示威活动，引发了抗议浪潮。

travel warnings and reigniting a debate on over-policing in marginalized communities. 
旅行警告并重新引发关于边缘化社区过度警务的辩论。

Scenes emerged of people setting fires to vehicles and climbing onto buildings with smashed windows, while riot police officers fiercely clashed with demonstrations.
出现了人们放火焚烧车辆、爬上窗户被砸碎的建筑物的场景，防暴警察与示威者发生激烈冲突。


1. a wave of protests  一场抗议热潮
2. a ban on demonstrations 游行示威禁令
3. over-policing in marginalized communities 边缘社区的过度监管
4. riot police officers 防暴警察

0711
https://www.ft.com/content/537d10f8-83e7-4af9-b083-336720b7cced

Tesla delivers record number of cars as price cut pays off for Musk
特斯拉交付创纪录数量的汽车，降价为马斯克带来回报

China’s BYD also delivers robust sales, with first half numbers nearly doubling that of last year
中国比亚迪的销量也很强劲，上半年的销量几乎是去年的两倍

China’s BYD also delivers robust sales
中国的比亚迪也实现了强劲的销售，

delivers v. 交付;传送;递送;发表;发布;兑现;宣布;运载;履行诺言;不负所望; deliver的第三人称单数

Tesla shares, which have more than doubled in the first half of this year, are set to extend their rally after the company beat expectations, delivering a record number of vehicles in the second quarter.
特斯拉股价今年上半年上涨了一倍多，在该公司第二季度交付了创纪录的车辆数量超出预期后，该公司的股价将继续上涨。

set to extend their rally after the company beat expectations
该公司超出预期后将延续涨势

The electric vehicle pioneer said it delivered 466,000 vehicles between April and June, up 10.4 per cent from the previous quarter and 83.5 per cent from a year before, 
demonstrating the value of price cuts earlier this year. Production was even higher, at nearly 480,000.
这家电动汽车先驱表示，4 月至 6 月期间交付了 466,000 辆汽车，环比增长 10.4%，同比增长 83.5%，这证明了今年早些时候降价的价值。 产量甚至更高，接近 480,000 辆。


0712
https://www.bbc.com/news/business-66083337

New Zealand bans plastic bags for fresh produce in supermarkets

New Zealand     新西兰
plastic     塑料
bag     袋子
fresh   新鲜的;清新的;

New Zealand has become the world's first country to expand its ban on plastic bags in supermarkets to thin bags, which are typically used to hold fruits or vegetables.

thin    薄的;瘦的;细的;
typically       典型的;通常;一般;
fruits      水果
vegetable   蔬菜

The move, which took effect on Saturday, is part of a wider government campaign against single-use plastics.

The move    此举
take effect     生效
a wider government campaign     更广泛的政府运动
against single-use plastics     针对一次性塑料

Most shoppers already bring their own bags to stores after take-home plastic bags were banned in 2019.

Most shoppers       大多数购物者
take-home plastic bags      禁止带回家塑料袋

In recent years, many countries have imposed a fee or ban on plastic bags.

In recent years     近年来
imposed a fee       征收费用

"New Zealand produces too much waste, too much plastic waste," Associate Environment Minister Rachel Brooking said.

Associate Environment Minister      环境部副部长

She added more than one billion plastic bags had been saved since the ban on thicker bags took effect in 2019.

She added more      她补充说
thicker             厚的

The new move is expected to prevent the usage of 150 million plastic bags per year.

The new move    新举措


0713
https://www.kekenet.com/Article/202307/675519.shtml

Hong Kong singer Coco Lee has died, she was 48 years old.

In a statement shared by Coco's sisters on her Facebook page, the musician died by suicide.

statement   n. 声明
musician    n. 音乐家，作曲家
suicide     n. 自杀

They revealed Coco had been suffering from depression for several years with her condition getting worse over the last few months.

revealed    v. 揭露，透露，显示（reveal的过去式和过去分词）
depression  n. 抑郁，沮丧，萧条
several  years   n. 几年：指一段不确定的时间，通常为两年以上
condition      n. 状态；条件；疾病

"Although Coco sought professional help and did her best to fight depression, sadly that demon inside of her took the better of her."

sought  v. 寻找（seek的过去式和过去分词）
professional    n.  专家
sadly       adv. 悲哀地；悲痛地
demon   n. 魔鬼，恶魔
took    v. 拿，取，接受（take的过去式）

Coco's singing career spans over three decades. As a pop singer in Asia, she released albums in both Cantonese and English.

career  n. 职业，生涯
span   n. 跨度，宽度
album   n. 相册，音乐专辑
Cantonese   n.粤语，广东人，广东话

One of Coco's most notable career moments, voicing Mulan in the Mandarin version of the 1998 Disney classic,

voicing     n 发言，v. 表示，发嗓音
notable     adj.显著的
Mandarin    n. 普通话

she also sang "Reflection", the emotional ballad from the film soundtrack.

emotional   adj. 情感的，感情的
ballad      n. 民谣，民歌
soundtrack  n. 原声带;(电影的)声迹，声带;电影音乐磁带(或唱片);电影对白磁带(或唱片)

Fast forward to 2001, and Coco made Oscar performance history.

Fast forward 快进
performance     n. 履行，表演

Coco took the stage to sing "A Love Before Time" from "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon", which was nominated for best original song,

nominated   提名
best original song      最佳原创歌曲

making her the first Chinese-American to ever perform at the award show.

Chinese-American    华裔美国人
perform at          演奏...
award show          颁奖典礼

"I'm enjoying every moment because this is my first time in the Oscars. I want to have a lot of fun."

Oscars  奥斯卡奖 ; 
a lot of    很多 ; 许多
fun     乐趣 ; 快乐 ; 玩笑 ; 

That same year, Coco made history again, but in the fashion world, taking on the role of the first Chanel brand ambassador of Chinese descent.

fashion world       时尚界
descent     血统 ; 出身 ; 祖先 ; 斜坡 ; 祖籍 
brand ambassador    品牌大使
Chanel       香奈儿

As for Coco's legacy, her sisters hope the singer's spirit is a reminder of how to live life, writing,

legacy      遗产
spirit      精神 ; 人 ; 灵魂 ; 心灵 ; 情绪
reminder    提醒 ; 通知单 ; 提示信 ;

"Treat people with sincerity, and convey kindness and love to everyone around us. Her rays of light will last forever."

Treat people with sincerity     真诚待人
convey      传递
rays of light       光线 ; 光芒 ; 希望之光
last forever         持久 ; 万古长存