https://edition.cnn.com/style/article/king-charles-model-kiss-australia/index.html

Remember when an Australian model stole a kiss from the then-Prince Charles?
还记得一位澳大利亚模特从当时的查尔斯王子那里偷了一个吻吗？

Published 5th May 2023
出版日期：2023年5月5日

It was a beautiful day on Cottesloe Beach in Perth, Western Australia in March 1979. 
Prince Charles, the then 30-year-old eldest son of Queen Elizabeth II — and future King — was touring the state on behalf of his mother.
1979年3月，在西澳大利亚珀斯的科特斯洛海滩，那是一个美丽的日子。
当时30岁的查尔斯王子是英国女王伊丽莎白二世的长子，也是未来的国王，他代表母亲访问了该州。

As he finished his regular 6.30 a.m. swim, Charles was intercepted by Jane Priest, 
a bikini-clad 26-year-old model who giggled as she placed her hands on the bashful royal's shoulders and, to his surprise, planted a kiss on his cheek.
查尔斯在早上6点30分完成常规游泳时，被简·普里斯特拦截，
一位身穿比基尼的26岁模特，当她把手放在这位害羞的王室成员的肩膀上时，她咯咯地笑了起来，令他惊讶的是，她亲吻了他的脸颊。

The "Bond" moment — which was caught on camera — was not as spontaneous as it may first appear. 
In a 2013 documentary, royal photographer Kent Gavin admitted to asking Priest to "run up and kiss" Charles to create a photo opportunity.
镜头捕捉到的“邦德”时刻并不像最初看起来那样自发。
在2013年的一部纪录片中，皇家摄影师肯特·加文承认曾要求普里斯特“跑过去亲吻”查尔斯，以创造拍照机会。

But in a 2012 interview with London's Evening Standard newspaper, 
Priest explained how the rendezvous, intended to "make Charles more accessible," did not go exactly as planned.
但在2012年接受伦敦《标准晚报》采访时，
普里斯特解释说，这次会面旨在“让查尔斯更容易接近”，但并没有按计划进行。

"When he saw me, he dived into the water, so I thought I'd follow him in, but as I went in, he got out," Priest told the newspaper. 
"So I followed him out, hair ruined, make-up ruined, and I felt like such an idiot. I actually went and put my hands on his chest to give him a kiss and Charles said: 'No, I can't touch you, I can't touch you.'"
普里斯特告诉该报：“当他看到我时，他跳进了水里，所以我想我会跟着他进去，但当我进去的时候，他出来了。”。
“所以我跟着他出去了，头发都毁了，化妆品也毁了，我觉得自己像个白痴。我真的去把手放在他的胸口吻了他一下，查尔斯说：‘不，我不能碰你，我不能摸你。’”

Nevertheless, the photo opportunity — which was heralded as showing the transformation of a once awkward young man into a desirable prince — certainly made waves, 
appearing on front pages across the globe. It remains one of the rare occasions a British prince has been photographed in swimwear, and certainly in such short shorts.
尽管如此，这次拍照的机会——被誉为展示了一个曾经笨拙的年轻人变成了一个令人向往的王子——确实引起了轰动，
出现在全球的头版。这仍然是罕见的英国王子穿着泳衣被拍到的照片之一，当然还有这样的短裤。

In recent years, men's micro-shorts have enjoyed something of a renaissance. No longer considered a sartorial taboo, 
viral street-style snaps of actors Paul Mescal and Milo Ventimiglia have demonstrated that short-shorts deserve to become a summer staple once again. In 2020,
 a public demand for more men in 5" inseam shorts swept TikTok with hundreds of dedicated videos — today the phrase boasts over 52 million views.
近年来，男士短裤迎来了某种复兴。不再被视为服装禁忌，
演员保罗·梅斯卡尔（Paul Mescal）和米洛·文蒂米利亚（Milo Ventimiglia）的街头风格照片在网上疯传，这表明短裤应该再次成为夏季的主食。2020年，
公众对更多穿着5英寸内接缝短裤的男性的需求席卷了TikTok，并发布了数百个专用视频——如今，这个短语的浏览量超过5200万。

The 1979 image also bestowed overnight fame on Priest, then a young mother of one, who went on to have a successful modeling and television career. 
"Here was one of the most powerful men in the world and he was absolutely adorable," she recalled to the Evening Standard.
 "I was totally overawed for those couple of minutes."
 1979年的这张照片也让普里斯特一夜成名，她当时是一个孩子的年轻母亲，后来有了成功的模特和电视生涯。
“这是世界上最有权势的男人之一，他非常可爱，”她向《标准晚报》回忆道。
“那几分钟我完全被吓到了。”

Sign up for CNN's Royal News, a weekly dispatch bringing you the inside track on the royal family, what they are up to in public and what's happening behind palace walls.
注册美国有线电视新闻网（CNN）的《皇家新闻》（Royal News），这是一份每周发布的新闻，为您带来王室的内幕消息，他们在公共场合做了什么，以及宫殿墙后发生了什么。